Adds Create, Delete, Retention (#2020)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/cloud/tcld/namespace/create.md

---
id: create
title: tcld namespace create
sidebar_label: create
description: How to create information about a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using tcld.
tags:
  - tcld
---

The `tcld namespace create` command creates a Temporal [Namespace](/concepts/what-is-a-namespace) in Temporal Cloud.

Alias: `c`

`tcld namespace create`

The following modifiers control the behavior of the command.

### `--request-id`

The request-id to use for the asynchronous operation, if not set the server will assign one (optional).

Alias: `-r`

### `--ca-certificate`

The base64 encoded ca certificate.

Alias: `-c`

### `--namespace`

Specify the namespace hosted on Temporal Cloud.
Alias: `-n`

### `--region`

Create namespace in this Region.

Valid options: `ap-northeast-1` | `ap-southeast-1` | `ap-southeast-2` | `ca-central-1` | `eu-central-1` | `eu-west-1` | `eu-west-2` | `us-east-1` | `us-west-2`

Alias: `--re`

### `--retention-days`

The retention of the namespace in days (default: 30).

Alias: `--rd`

### `--ca-certificate-file`

The path to the CA certificate file.

Alias: `--cf`

### `--certificate-filter-file`

> Path to a JSON file that defines the certificate filters that will be added to the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Required modifier unless `--certificate-filter-input` is specified_

Path to a JSON file that defines the certificate filters to be applied to the Namespace.
The specified filters replace any existing filters.
```

> Sample JSON: `{ "filters": [ { "commonName": "test1" } ] }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample JSON: `{ "filters": [ { "commonName": "test1" } ] }`

If both `--certificate-filter-file` and `--certificate-filter-input` are specified, the command returns an error.
```

Alias: `--cff`

### `--certificate-filter-input`

> JSON that defines the certificate filters that will be added to the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Required modifier unless `--certificate-filter-file` is specified_

A JSON string that defines the certificate filters to be applied to the Namespace.
The specified filters replace any existing filters.
```

> Sample JSON: `{ "filters": [ { "commonName": "test1" } ] }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample JSON: `{ "filters": [ { "commonName": "test1" } ] }`

If both `--certificate-filter-input` and `--certificate-filter-file` are specified, the command returns an error.
```

Alias: `--cfi`

### `--search-attribute`

> Flag can be used multiple times.
> 
> Valid values: `name=type`
> 
> Valid options: `Keyword` | `Text` | `Int` | `Double` | `Datetime` | `Bool`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Required modifier; can be specified more than once_

A custom Search Attribute in the form `_name_=_type_`.

Valid values for _type_: `Keyword` | `Text` | `Int` | `Double` | `Datetime` | `Bool`
```
Elsewhere, these values appear in alphabetical order. Should this list do the same?

Alias: `--sa`

### `--user-namespace-permission`

> Flag can be used multiple times.
> 
> Value must be `email=permission`
> 
> Valid permissions: `Admin` | `Write` | `Read`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Can be specified more than once_

A [Namespace-level permission](/cloud/#namespace-level-permissions) for a user in the form `_email_=_permission_`.

Valid values for _permission_: `Admin` | `Write` | `Read`
```

---
id: create
title: tcld namespace create
sidebar_label: create
description: How to create information about a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using tcld.
tags:
  - tcld
---

The `tcld namespace create` command creates a Temporal [Namespace](/concepts/what-is-a-namespace) in Temporal Cloud.

Alias: `c`

`tcld namespace create`

The following modifiers control the behavior of the command.

### `--request-id`

The request-id to use for the asynchronous operation, if not set the server will assign one (optional).

Alias: `-r`

### `--ca-certificate`

The base64 encoded ca certificate.

Alias: `-c`

### `--namespace`

> Specify the namespace hosted on Temporal Cloud. If not specified, the value of the environment variable `$TEMPORAL_CLOUD_NAMESPACE` is used.

Reviewer 2: I think I changed this to be

> The namespace hosted on temporal cloud

We aren't supporting env variable for this because i thought it would be error prone (since usually it's used for updates)

Alias: `-n`

### `--region`

Create namespace in this Region.

Valid options: `ap-northeast-1` | `ap-southeast-1` | `ap-southeast-2` | `ca-central-1` | `eu-central-1` | `eu-west-1` | `eu-west-2` | `us-east-1` | `us-west-2`

Alias: `--re`

### `--retention-days`

The retention of the namespace in days (default: 30).

Alias: `--rd`

### `--ca-certificate-file`

The path to the CA certificate file.

Alias: `--cf`

### `--certificate-filter-file`

Path to a JSON file that defines the certificate filters that will be added to the namespace.

Sample JSON: `{ "filters": [ { "commonName": "test1" } ] }`

Alias: `--cff`

### `--certificate-filter-input`

JSON that defines the certificate filters that will be added to the namespace.

Sample JSON: `{ "filters": [ { "commonName": "test1" } ] }`

Alias: `--cfi`

### `--search-attribute`

Flag can be used multiple times.

Valid values: `name=type`

Valid options: `Keyword` | `Text` | `Int` | `Double` | `Datetime` | `Bool`

Alias: `--sa`

### `--user-namespace-permission`

Flag can be used multiple times.

Value must be `email=permission`

Valid permissions: `Admin` | `Write` | `Read`

Alias: `-p`

**Example**

```bash

> tcld namespace create my-namespace --region us-west-2 --retention-days 60 --certificate-filter-input '{"filters": [{"commonName": "test1"}]}' --user-namespace-permission "user@example.com=Admin" --search-attribute "customer_id=Int" --search-attribute "customer_name=Text"

Reviewer 2: are we missing a `--namespace` between `create` and `my-namespace` ?
